"At last this is bone of my bones,
And flesh of my flesh;
She shall be called 'woman,'
Because she was taken out of man."
"Because you have done this,
Cursed are you more than all the livestock,
And more than any animal of the field;
On your belly you shall go,
And dust you shall eat
All the days of your life;
15 And I will make enemies
Of you and the woman,
And of your offspring and her Descendant;
He shall bruise you on the head,
And you shall bruise Him on the heel."
"I will greatly multiply Your
Your pain in childbirth,
In pain you shall deliver children;
Yet your desire will be for your husband,
And he shall rule over you."
Cursed is the ground because of you;
With hard labor you shall eat from it
All the days of your life.
18 "Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you;
Yet you shall eat the plants of the field;
19 By the sweat of your face
You shall eat bread,
Until you return to the ground,
Because from it you were taken;
For you are dust,
And to dust you shall return."
"Adah and Zillah,
Listen to my voice,
You wives of Lamech,
Pay attention to my words,
For I have killed a man for wounding me;
And a boy for striking me!
24 "If Cain is avenged seven times,
Then Lamech seventy-seven times!"
22 "While the earth remains,
Seedtime and harvest,
Cold and heat,
Summer and winter,
And day and night
Shall not cease."
6 "Whoever sheds human blood,
By man his blood shall be shed,
For in the image of God
He made mankind.
7 "As for you, be fruitful and multiply;
Populate the earth abundantly and multiply in it."
"Cursed be Canaan;
A servant of servants
He shall be to his brothers."
"Blessed be the Lord, The
The God of Shem;
And may Canaan be his servant. 27
27 "May God enlarge Japheth,
And may he live in the tents of Shem;
And may Canaan be his servant."
"Go from your country,
And from your relatives
And from your father's house,
To the land which I will show you;
2 And I will make you into a great nation,
And I will bless you,
And make your name great;
And you shall be a blessing;
3 And I will bless those who bless you,
And the one who curses you I will curse.
And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed."
"Blessed be Abram of God Most High,
Possessor of heaven and earth;
20 And blessed be God Most High,
Who has handed over your enemies to you."
"Do not fear, Abram,
I am a shield to you;
Your reward shall be very great."
"To your descendants I have given this land,
From the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates:
"Behold, you are pregnant,
And you will give birth to a son;
And you shall name him Ishmael,
Because the Lord has heard your affliction.
12 "But he will be a wild donkey of a man;
His hand will be against everyone,
And everyone's hand will be against him;
And he will live in defiance of all his brothers."
"I am God Almighty;
Walk before Me, and be blameless.
2 "I will make My covenant between Me and you,
And I will multiply you exceedingly."
4 "As for Me, behold, My covenant is with you,
And you will be the father of a multitude of nations.
5 "No longer shall you be named Abram,
But your name shall be Abraham;
For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.
"May you, our sister,
Become thousands of ten thousands,
And may your descendants possess
The gate of those who hate them."
"Two nations are in your womb;
And two peoples will be separated from your body;
And one people will be stronger than the other;
And the older will serve the younger."
"I am the God of your father Abraham;
Do not fear, for I am with you.
I will bless you and multiply your descendants,
For the sake of My servant Abraham."
"See, the smell of my son
Is like the smell of a field which the Lord has blessed;
28 Now may God give you of the dew of heaven,
And of the fatness of the earth,
And an abundance of grain and new wine;
29 May peoples serve you,
And nations bow down to you;
Be master of your brothers,
And may your mother's sons bow down to you.
Cursed be those who curse you,
And blessed be those who bless you."
"Behold, away from the fertility of the earth shall be your dwelling,
And away from the dew of heaven from above.
40 "And by your sword you shall live,
And you shall serve your brother;
But it shall come about when you become restless,
That you will break his yoke from your neck."
"Your name is Jacob;
You shall no longer be called Jacob,
But Israel shall be your name."
"I am God Almighty;
Be fruitful and multiply;
A nation and a multitude of nations shall come from you,
And kings shall come from you.
12 "And the land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac,
I will give to you,
And I will give the land to your descendants after you."
"The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked,
The God who has been my shepherd all my life to this day,
16 The angel who has redeemed me from all evil,
Bless the boys;
And may my name live on in them,
And the names of my fathers Abraham and Isaac;
And may they grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth."
"By you Israel will pronounce blessing, saying,
'May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh!' "
2 "Gather together and listen, sons of Jacob;
Yes, listen to Israel your father.
3 "Reuben, you are my firstborn,
My might and the beginning of my strength,
Preeminent in dignity and preeminent in power.
4 "Uncontrollable as water, you shall not have preeminence,
Because you went up to your father's bed;
Then you defiled it-he went up to my couch.
5 "Simeon and Levi are brothers;
Their swords are implements of violence.
6 "May my soul not enter into their council;
May my glory not be united with their assembly;
For in their anger they killed men,
And in their self-will they lamed oxen.
7 "Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce;
And their wrath, for it is cruel.
I will scatter them in Jacob,
And disperse them among Israel.
8 "As for you, Judah, your brothers shall praise you;
Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies;
Your father's sons shall bow down to you.
9 "Judah is a lion's cub;
From the prey, my son, you have gone up.
He crouches, he lies down as a lion,
And as a lion, who dares to stir him up?
10 "The scepter will not depart from Judah,
Nor the ruler's staff from between his feet,
Until Shiloh comes,
And to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.
11 "He ties his foal to the vine,
And his donkey's colt to the choice vine;
He washes his garments in wine,
And his robes in the blood of grapes.
12 "His eyes are dull from wine,
And his teeth white from milk.
13 "Zebulun will reside at the seashore;
And he shall be a harbor for ships,
And his flank shall be toward Sidon.
14 "Issachar is a strong donkey,
Lying down between the sheepfolds.
15 "When he saw that a resting place was good
And that the land was pleasant,
He bowed his shoulder to carry burdens,
And became a slave at forced labor.
16 "Dan shall judge his people,
As one of the tribes of Israel.
17 "Dan shall be a serpent in the way,
A horned viper in the path,
That bites the horse's heels,
So that its rider falls backward.
18 "For Your salvation I wait, Lord.
19 "As for Gad, a band of raiders shall attack him,
But he will attack at their heels.
20 "As for Asher, his food shall be rich,
And he will yield royal delicacies.
21 "Naphtali is a doe let loose;
He utters beautiful words.
22 "Joseph is a fruitful branch,
A fruitful branch by a spring;
Its branches hang over a wall.
23 "The archers provoked him,
And shot at him and were hostile toward him;
24 But his bow remained firm,
And his arms were agile,
From the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob
(From there is the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel),
25 From the God of your father who helps you,
And by the Almighty who blesses you
With blessings of heaven above,
Blessings of the deep that lies beneath,
Blessings of the breasts and of the womb.
26 "The blessings of your father
Have surpassed the blessings of my ancestors
Up to the furthest boundary of the everlasting hills;
May they be on the head of Joseph,
And on the top of the head of the one distinguished among his brothers.
27 "Benjamin is a ravenous wolf;
In the morning he devours the prey,
And in the evening he divides the spoils."
